1. syntax to declare variable  ---    type variableName = value;

2.can we have 2 variables with same name in same scope ---- no

3.can we declare static variables inside the method   -------  no

4.can we change the class signature main method ------   no

5.what is the purpose of using String args[] in main method ----- to hold the command line arguments in the form of string values. 

6.java is strictly types language or not ---- no because java is a strongly typed programming language because every variable must be declared with a data type

7.can we declare more than 2 methods with same name ----- yes

8.can we have a 2 class with same name ---- no 

9. syntax to declare array and assign values to the array ---- datatype[] arrayName = new datatype[length]

10.output ---  0


11. how to run java program with steps

12.javac --- The Java programming language compiler, javac , reads source files written in the Java programming language, and compiles them into bytecode class files

   java ---- java is a object oriented programming language(oop)which is platform independent.

13.classLoader --- it is a part of JRE i,e java runtime environment.

14.when will we get the ArrayIndexBound Exception and how to solve it --- when we access an array,  with an invalid index.
 
15.why java is not a pure object oriented programming language ----- it is because of the presence of primitive data types, use of static keywords and wrapper classes in java program.

16.Why we need JDK,JRE, and JVM ---
   JDK --- JAVA DEVELOPMENT KIT---JDK is for development purpose. 
   JRE --- JAVA RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT ---JRE is for running the java programs
   JVM --- JAVA VIRTUAL MACHINE --- JDK and JRE both contains JVM so that we can run our java program

17.Which is the special method called by JVM --- To initialize the object, the JVM calls a special method named <init>.

18.Will the program run if we write static public void main ----  yes

19.What gives java its "write once and run anywhere" nature ---- The bytecode.

20.What if i write static public void instead of public static void --- it will run the program successfully.

21.Explain about JVM --- A Java virtual machine (JVM) is a virtual machine that enables a computer to run Java programs as well as programs written in other languages that are also compiled to Java bytecode.

22.Explain class member ---  has its definition or its prototype within the class definition like any other variable.

23.Explain the types of arguments --- formal arguments, actual arguments
24. 
25.What is variable --- A variable is a container which holds the value when the Java program is getting executed. A variable can be assigned with a data type. Variable is a name of memory location.
 
26.Where does java stores variables --- variables are stored in the heap collection.

27.What is variable initialization how is it different than assignment

28.Why is specifying datatype is is mandatory in java --- because java is a strongly typed language.

29.What are the different kinds of variables defined in java programming language --- local,instance and static.

30.Tasks of JVM --- 1.It will allow Java programs to run on any device(WORA) 
                    2.And to manage program memory.

31.What are block variables in java programming language ---

 
32.What is WORA stands for --- Write Once Run Anywhere.

33.How to check the version og java ---- java -version

34.Latest version of java is --- java 18.0.1.1

35.What is a class --- A class is a building blockk of OOP. It is a blueprint and which define the properties and behavior of objects.

	
36.What is an object ---  object is the instances of class that represent real world things.
 
37.Write the syntax to declare a class ---  class NameOfClass { . . . } 

38.Write a syntax to create a instance(object) ---  ClassName object = new ClassName();

39.What is a constructor --- to initialize the  instance variable,when the object is created.

   
